---
layout: posts
author: Degananda Ferdian
categories: blog
series-code: none
excerpt: May 2025 updates on Pipenpoof.com
tags: site-updates
topics: site-updates change-logs
ptype: News
background: journey updates on pipenpoof
objective: to give update about pipenpoof journey from november 2024 to May 2025
deliverables: just a post.
hidden: true
---

Hello There !

# PipenPoof on May 2025

Its been almost 7 Month (November'24 to May'25) eversince pipenpoof live on the public. There are several changes that we made so far. From functionality, post theme and also design.

    As of 12 May:1 AM, we have a Total of 20 Articles over 10 Topics. Quite low, only arround +- 2~3 articles per month. 

# Objectives

Our original objective on pipenpoof is to create a serialized tutorial in form of article. However, with our limited time due to works, its hard to really focus and commit to the planned series. Hence, we wrote something that only align with our work journey(Consulting, depend

# Improvement

## Commitment on the Series

Going forward (starting as of this article published), we will only plan to wrote one single series at a time and commit to the timeline.

## Random Topics Article

Pipenpoof also has following tagline: <i>Explore, Design, Code, Proof and Document The Data Pipeline. <b>Evolving with Our Career Journey</b>. A Living Journal.</i> &mdash; Hence some random article that related to our works/project will still there.

## Helping Hand

We do understand to speed up the content progression a helping hand is needed. Currently the only active writer is me.

    Unless pipenpoof got a way to monetize the content, adding new writer would be challenging. We'll try to figure out on how to monetize this site. At least not until 1 Series has been completed (article + videos)

